# How the Controllers work:
## General:
The controllers are mostly On-Off-Controllers, which means their output is true, if the value that needs to be checked is between the two limits. There are 4 different control loops, which are operated the same way, but vary in the way they work. Each control loop 
  * can be activated or deactivated
  * provides a total of 4 actors to operate
  * has it’s own limits to be changed, according to the functionality

To access the control loops, you have to go to the room settings (click on a room) and click on *“Control”*. Then you see all 4 control loops and can change their settings from there.

**Attention!** For all ventilation controllers to work, you need at least an outside temperature! The control loops for humidity ventilation also need outside humidity to work!
## Activate/Deactivate a Loop:
To activate/deactivate a control loop, click on the loop you want to change. There you find a checkbox with the description *“activate controller”*. Here you can activate or deactivate the control loop, but there can only be one active control loop at a time. If you activate one, although there is another one active, it will deactivate the other one and activate the one you chose.
## Set Actors:
To set the actors you want to use, you have to click on the button *“Choose Actors”*. Here you see a list of the actor types that are available for this control loop and which actors you chose. If no actor is chosen, you only see a *“+”*. Now if you click on the *“+”* the list with all available actors opens. You can switch through all actors with the arrows for changing the page. After that you can choose the actor you want to use, e. g. *“Actor 5”*, by clicking on it, which takes you to the learning page. To learn a new actor, you first have to put it in the learning mode (hold the button on the plug for ~5 seconds, till the red LED blinks). Now you can press *“Learn”* on the box. If the learning was successful the plug will blink green. Learning will take you back to the overview page and now you see the name of the actor you chose instead of *“+”*.  You can also change an actor like this. The only difference is, that now the button has the name of the current actor in it instead of *“+”*. You can not remove one actor alone, only all of them with the button *“Remove all Actors”*. It is possible, to use the same actor multiple times, although it is not always a good idea. A good negative example would be to use the same actor for Heating and Ventilation, because these to work inverted. But you could use the same actor for Heating in different rooms. If you want to use the same actor again, you do not have to activate the learning on the actor again, just press the learn button on the box.
## Change Limits:
If you press the button *“Set Limits”*, it takes you to the limits page. Here you can change the limits for the control loop you want to use. Each control loop has unique pages according to its functions. With *“+”* and *“-”* you can change the limits and with the arrows you can switch between the different limits you can change. The *“Outdoor Temperature”* limit is the same for all controllers. So if you change it for one loop, it will be changed for all other loops too. The same is for the humidity  ventilation values *“Humidity”* in sVAS1, sVAS2 and sVAS3. All ventilation only works if the outdoor temperature is higher than its limit. 

**This was how to use the controllers and change their settings. If a controller is activated, its name and all the connected actors will be shown on the room page. Active actors are green, as is the name of the control loop, if there is an active actor**.

## Different Controller Types
Now let us take a look at the 4 different types.
### sVAS1 (smart Ventilation Assistance System) Ventilation:
The purpose of this control loop is to keep the relative humidity in a room under a certain value (the limit set on the *“Limits”* page). To reduce the relative humidity, it can use a ventilation or window drives, to open the windows, to let air from outside into the room. But the air from outside shall only be used, if the absolute humidity outside is smaller than 12 g/m³ and at least 1 g/m³ less then the absolute humidity in the room. This is why the ventilation needs the outside humidity and temperature. If the relative humidity is higher than the specified limit, the output of the loop activates and turns all connected actors for this loop on. The actors stay turned on until the relative humidity is about the specified difference smaller than the limit. For example: the limit is 60% and the difference is 5%. If the relative humidity reaches this value, the actors are turned on (given all the other parameters are fulfilled) and stay on, until the relative humidity in the room is 55%,.
### sVAS2 Dehumidifier
This control loop has the same ventilation as sVAS1, but in addition to that it has a dehumidifier. If the relative humidity reaches a critical border, the limit *“Humidity Border”*, the ventilation would not be sufficient, so there will not be a ventilation, but instead the dehumidifier is used to reduce the relative humidity. The dehumidifier works without an outside temperature and can be used without ventilation
### sVAS3 Heating
This control loop also uses the same ventilation as sVAS1, but it adds a heating. If through the ventilation or some other reason the temperature would drop under a certain value, the heating activates and deactivates the ventilation. The heating will stay on until a reference value is reached. It also works without an outside temperature. Heating can be used without ventilation.
### sVAS4 Air Quality
sVAS4 also uses a ventilation, but this one is different from the one in sVAS1. sVAS4 does not care about the humidity, so it works without an outdoor humidity. This one cares about the values of CO2, VOC and the sprout value. If one of these three values is higher than its limit, the ventilation and the window drives will activate, if the outside temperature is high enough.